<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Chapter 2: Anatomy of a Book</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Chapter 2: Anatomy of a Book</h1>

	<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">B</span>ooks have standardised pages between the two covers. These can be split into three distinct sections; front matter, content and back matter.</p>
	<p>There is also the spine which is difficult to categorise in this context. The spine is the area between the covers where the pages are bound. Good spine design is important for a physical book as most books are placed on a bookshelf vertically or stacked horizontally to save space.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading">Front Cover</h1>

	<p class="noindent">The front cover is the protective layer of the book usually with large text and a photograph or illustration. It is designed to lure a potential reader to the book.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading">Front Matter</h1>

	<p class="noindent">The front matter are pages between the front cover and the first chapter or section:</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Title</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The title page is similar to the cover and uses large text (often in the same font as the cover) for the title of the book and its author. Some title pages include the logo of the publisher at the bottom or vertical-centre.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Frontispiece</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The frontispiece is a page with a large photograph or illustration that is usually opposite the title page or indicia. The frontispiece is less common in modern books.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Indicia</h2>

	<p class="noindent">The indicia or copyright page is usually the first page after the title page. It contains either a body-size or smaller font detailing copyright information about the book, when it was first published, the current edition, the ISBN and the publisher's or author's contact information.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Dedication</h2>

	<h2 class="subheading">Acknowledgements</h2>

	<h2 class="subheading">Foreword/Preface</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">Both the foreword and the preface are information about the book supplied by the author to introduce the book. Strictly speaking a preface is written by the author themselves and a foreword is specifically written by another author, though the two terms are often used interchangeably.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Table of Contents</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The table of contents or simply contents, lists the content of the book in page order and is usually seperated by chapter or section.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading">Back Matter</h1>

	<h2 class="subheading">Appendix</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The appendix is where miscellaneous information regarding the book is placed. The information or layout of an appendix varies depending on the work, but it is often reference information. For example, in my remaster of <i>A Yorkshire Cookery Book</i> I made an appendix for a conversion table and a verbatim write-up of an old newspaper cutting.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Postface/Backword</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The opposite of a preface and foreword respectively. These pages are rare, but utilised by authors to provide information that is only relevant to those who have read the content prior.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Bibliography</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The bibliography is a page containing a list of references for mostly technical books that use referencing. Traditionally this page would be a list of just other books, but in this modern age any media can be referenced in a bibliography.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Index</h2>


	<h1 class="subheading">Back Cover</h1>

	<p class="noindent">The front cover is the first</p>

</body>
</html>
