<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Chapter 3: What is an E-book?</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Chapter 3: What is an E-book?</h1>

	<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">E</span>-books are digital books. In this day and age most e-books use either the ePub, Mobi or PDF format.<a href="#ref-1" id="cit-1"><sup>1</sup></a> I personally describe an e-book as "a website in a zipped folder" because both the ePub and Mobi formats use HTML and CSS to format and style each page.</p>
	<p>There are two types of e-book:</p>

	<ul>
		<li><b>Reflowable</b> - The e-book reader scales the content to the e-reader's screen size. A well designed reflowable e-book looks good on both a 5 inch smartphone and a 12 inch tablet, plus everything in-between.</li>
		<li><b>Fixed-layout</b> - The e-book reader renders the e-book with a fixed layout that cannot be changed. This is used for an e-book that is dependent on images...</li>
	</ul>

	<p>E-books are read on dedicated software called e-book readers or e-readers.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="epub">ePub</h1>
	<p class="noindent">The ePublication (or ePub) is an open format, that is as of 2017? maintained by the World Wide Web Commission (W3C) making it an official web standard.<a href="#ref-2" id="cit-2"><sup>2</sup></a></p>
	<p>There are two supported versions of the ePub standard:</p>

	<ul>
		<li>3.1 (latest release)</li>
		<li>2.0.1 (maintenance release)</li>
	</ul>

	<p>The reasoning behind two supported versions is to provide compatibility for older e-readers. However ePub 3 is recommended as it includes more features such as support for mathematical formulae via MathML, right-to-left and vertical text directions for languages such as Arabic and Japanese, as well as improvements to the metadata such as adding book reviews and excerpts.</p>
	<p><span class="mono">ebookbuild</span> as of v0.8111 supports only 2.0.1 but I have plans to add addition support for ePub 3 going forward.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="epub">Mobi</h1>
	<p class="noindent bottom">The Mobipocket (or Mobi) format was adopted for the popular Kindle e-readers when Amazon acquired the company. Mobi e-books are a proprietary format and are different to the ePub, though their popularity cannot be overlooked.</p>

	<hr/>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a href="#cit-1" id="ref-1">1</a>. While many publications are freely and commericially available in the Portable Document File (PDF) format and labelled as e-books; this book treats them as documents due to their fixed-layout (usually to A4 pages). The fixed-layout can cause an inferior reading experience on small-screens, so for that reason I <b>do not</b> recommend the PDF format - unless you require a file format everyone recognises and a consistent layout is crucial (such as with a magazine).</p>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a href="#cit-2" id="ref-2">2</a>. Prior to 2017? The ePub format was maintained by the not-for-profit International Digital Publishing Forum (IDPF).</p>

</body>
</html>
