<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Chapter 2: Anatomy of a Book</title>
</head>

<body>
	<h1 class="heading">Chapter 2: Anatomy of a Book</h1>

	<p class="noindent"><span class="initial">B</span>ooks have standardised pages between the two covers. These can be split into three distinct sections; front matter, content and back matter.</p>
	<p>There is also the spine which is difficult to categorise in this context. The spine is the area between the covers where the pages are bound. Good spine design is important for a physical book as most books are placed on a bookshelf vertically or stacked horizontally to save space.<a href="#ref-1" id="cit-1"><sup>1</sup></a></p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="front-cover">Front Cover</h1>

	<p class="noindent">The front cover is the protective layer of the book usually with large text and a photograph or illustration. It is designed to lure a potential reader to the book.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="front-matter">Front Matter</h1>

	<p class="noindent">The front matter are pages between the front cover and the first chapter or section:</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Title</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The title page is similar to the cover and uses large text (often in the same font as the cover) for the title of the book and its author. Some title pages include the logo of the publisher at the bottom or vertical-centre.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Frontispiece</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The frontispiece is a page with a large photograph or illustration that is usually opposite the title page or indicia. The frontispiece is less common in modern books.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Indicia</h2>

	<p class="noindent">The indicia or copyright page is usually the first page after the title page. It contains either a body-size or smaller font detailing copyright information about the book, when it was first published, the current edition, the International Standard Book Number (ISBN) and the publisher's or author's contact information.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Dedication</h2>

	<h2 class="subheading">Acknowledgements</h2>

	<h2 class="subheading">Table of Contents</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The table of contents or simply contents, lists the content of the book in page order and is usually seperated by chapter or section.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Epigraph</h2>

	<p class="noindent">The epigraph is a page dedicated to a quote or poem that is relevant to the book's content. Usually the epigraph part of the front matter but it can also be part of the back matter instead.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Foreword/Preface</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">Both the foreword and the preface are information about the book supplied by the author to introduce the book. Strictly speaking a preface is written by the author themselves and a foreword is specifically written by another author, though the two terms are often used interchangeably.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="content">Content</h1>

	<p class="noindent top">The content of the book are the chapters</p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="back-matter">Back Matter</h1>

	<p class="noindent top">The back matter is mostly reference information included after the book's content. Many of these pages are usually reserved for technical books.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Appendix</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The appendix is where miscellaneous information regarding the book is placed. The information or layout of an appendix varies depending on the work, but it is often reference information. For example, in my remaster of <i>A Yorkshire Cookery Book</i> I made an appendix for a conversion table and a verbatim write-up of an old newspaper cutting.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Postface/Afterword</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The postface and afterword are the opposite of a preface and foreword respectively. These pages are rare, but utilised by authors to provide information that is only relevant to those who have read the content prior.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Glossary</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The glossary contains word definitions specific to the book's content.</p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Bibliography</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The bibliography is a page containing a list of references that is often used in technical books. Traditionally this page would be a list of just other books, but in this modern age any media can be referenced in a bibliography. For example, in my essay <i>How We Are Entertained: The Consequences of the 1983 Video Game Crash</i> the bibligraphy lists mostly website links.<a href="#ref-2" id="cit-2"><sup>2</sup></a></p>

	<h2 class="subheading">Index</h2>

	<p class="noindent top">The index lists the page number(s) of terms covered in the book.</p>

	<h1 class="subheading" id="back-cover">Back Cover</h1>

	<p class="noindent bottom">The back cover is similar to the front cover but contains a summary of the book's content such as a synopsis or a list called the blurb. There is also a barcode on the back which is used for identification, usually the barcode's European Article Number (EAN) or Universal Product Code (UPC) is identical to the ISBN.</p>

	<hr/>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a href="#cit-1" id="ref-1">1</a>. <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Book_design">Wikipedia</a> has an excellent article on book design for further reading covering the front matter and back matter. Each of the pages have their own articles with examples.</p>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a href="#cit-2" id="ref-2">2</a>. My essay <i>How We Are Entertained: The Consequences of the 1983 Video Game Crash</i> is freely available from both <a href="">itch.io</a> and <a href="">GitHub</a>. It is also a sample project.</p>

</body>
</html>
