<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta content="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="Content-Type"/>
<link href="styles/zstylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<title>Introduction</title>
</head>

<body>

	<h1 class="heading">Introduction</h1>

	<p class="noindent top"><span class="initial">I</span> recall first interacting with an e-book in the summer of 2013. I was on a flight with my family either going to or heading back from New York (JFK) and as a way of keeping myself preoccupied I asked if I could use my sister’s e-ink Amazon Kindle. I was intrigued at the time because I liked how unlike PDF files the reader could interact with the text, they could make it larger or change the font to give themselves a more comfortable reading experience.</p>
	<p>In the late summer of 2014 I managed to get myself an apprenticeship for an e-book developer and micropublishing house. I was fortunate because I had dropped out of university after admittedly an emotionally turbulent year. There I was taught much that I know today about developing e-books by using their own proprietary, in-house software.<a id="cit-1" href="introduction.xhtml#ref-1"><sup>i</sup></a> The apprenticeship ended a year later but when I left I felt unsatisfied, I liked developing e-books and I wanted to find a way to make from-scratch e-book development available to everyone without vendor-lockin. This was my motivation for what would later become <span class="mono">ebookbuild</span>, a freely-available cross-platform e-book creation tool that anyone can use and modify under the terms of the GNU General Public License.<a id="cit-2" href="introduction.xhtml#ref-2"><sup>ii</sup></a></p>
	<p>I also wanted to assist prospective users as much as possible by providing several sample projects for study. I have made the source code (though <b>not</b> the content) of these e-books available under a public domain license. This book is also one of my sample projects. I liken it to the RPG Maker VX tutorial game <i>RPG Maker VX School</i><a id="cit-3" href="introduction.xhtml#ref-3"><sup>iii</sup></a> as you can learn not just by running the game but also by examining the source code that made it.</p>


	<p class="right top3 bottom">Hal Motley</p>

	<hr/>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a id="ref-1" href="introduction.xhtml#cit-1">i.</a> The official marketing term for the software is “bespoke toolchain”, unlike <span class="mono">ebookbuild</span> it had no name.</p>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a id="ref-2" href="introduction.xhtml#cit-2">ii.</a> I have listed the sample projects on <span class="mono">ebookbuild</span>’s GitHub repository: <a href="https://www.github.com/inferno986return/ebookbuild">https://www.github.com/inferno986return/ebookbuild</a> (archive: <a href="https://archive.fo/85nOI">https://archive.fo/85nOI</a>). Eventually <span class="mono">ebookbuild</span> will have its own website with a copy of that list.</p>
	<p class="noindent ref"><a id="ref-3" href="introduction.xhtml#cit-3">iii.</a> <i>RPG Maker VX School</i> - <a href="http://blog.rpgmakerweb.com/tutorials/vx-school/">http://blog.rpgmakerweb.com/tutorials/vx-school/</a> (archive: <a href="http://archive.fo/5xXnK">http://archive.fo/5xXnK</a>)</p>

</body>
</html>
